Basic Hono docs (#11555)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/libraries/hono.mdx

Reviewer: Which Hono template are you using for this? I think it is worth specifying because with Node, it doesn't seem to work as it is now.

Author: Huh, I'm using Node as well. Interesting

---
title: Hono
icon: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/hono_9d80c0611c.svg
---
import { CalloutBox } from 'components/Docs/CalloutBox'

PostHog makes it easy to get data about usage of your [Hono](https://hono.dev/) app. 
Integrating PostHog into your app enables analytics, custom events capture, feature flags, and more.

## Installation
Start by installing the `posthog-node` package using your package manager.
```sh
npm install --save posthog-node
```

Then, create a [middleware](https://hono.dev/docs/guides/middleware) to capture events for your routes.

> ```js file="middleware.js"

Reviewer: Needs imports?

Author: Added

const posthogServerMiddleware = createMiddleware(async (c, next) => {
    const { POSTHOG_HOST, POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY } = env<{ POSTHOG_HOST, POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY }>(c)
    const posthog = new PostHog(POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY, { host: POSTHOG_HOST })

    posthog.capture({
        distinctId: 'distinct_id_of_user', // Their user id or email
        event: 'user_did_something',
    })
    await posthog.shutdown() // TIP: On program exit, call shutdown to stop pending pollers and flush any remaining events
    await next()
})
```

<CalloutBox icon="IconInfo" title="Shutdown">

Make sure to always call `posthog.shutdown()` after capturing events from the server-side. 
PostHog queues events into larger batches, and this call forces all batched events to be flushed immediately.

</CalloutBox>

Next, apply this middleware to your app. This middleware will be called on every request handled by Hono,
denoted by the wildcard `*`.

> ```ts file=index.ts

Reviewer: Needs imports?

Author: Added

// use the middleware on all (*) routes.
app.use('*', posthogServerMiddleware)
```

In your routes, you can pass information to be captured by your middleware using [context `set()` and `get()` pair](https://hono.dev/docs/api/context#set-get)

## Error tracking

> Hono uses [`app.onError`](https://hono.dev/docs/api/exception#handling-httpexception) for root-level
> error handling. You can take advantage of this for [Error tracking](/docs/error-tracking).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hono uses [`app.onError`](https://hono.dev/docs/api/exception#handling-httpexception) for root-level error handling. You can take advantage of this for [Error tracking](/docs/error-tracking).
```

---
title: Hono
icon: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/hono_9d80c0611c.svg
---
import { CalloutBox } from 'components/Docs/CalloutBox'

PostHog makes it easy to get data about usage of your [Hono](https://hono.dev/) app. Integrating PostHog into your app enables analytics, custom events capture, feature flags, and more.

> This guide walks you through integrating PostHog with your Hono app running on the [Node.js](https://hono.dev/docs/getting-started/nodejs) runtimes. You can hook into the same middleware and `onError` for other runtimes to capture events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you through integrating PostHog with your Hono app running on the [Node.js](https://hono.dev/docs/getting-started/nodejs) runtime, but has also been tested with Cloudflare Workers, Vercel, and Bun. You can hook into the same middleware and `onError` for other runtimes to capture events.
```

## Prerequisites

To follow this guide along, you need:

1. A PostHog instance (either [Cloud](https://app.posthog.com/signup) or [self-hosted](/docs/self-host))
2. A Hono application. We suggest trying first with a fresh [Hono Node.js starter template](https://hono.dev/docs/getting-started/nodejs#_1-setup).

## Installation

Start by installing the `posthog-node` package using your package manager.
```bash
npm install --save posthog-node
```

> Then, create a [middleware](https://hono.dev/docs/guides/middleware) to capture events for your routes. Remember to export your [project API key](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project#variables) as an environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create a [middleware](https://hono.dev/docs/guides/middleware) to capture events for your routes. Remember to **export** your [project API key](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project#variables) as an environment variable.
```

```js file=index.ts
import { env } from 'hono/adapter'
import { createMiddleware } from 'hono/factory'
import { PostHog } from 'posthog-node'

const posthogServerMiddleware = createMiddleware(async (c, next) => {
  const { POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY } = env<{ POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY:string }>(c)

>   const posthog = new PostHog(POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY, { host: 'https://us.i.posthog.com' })

Reviewer: ph_client_api_host will autofill with the correct value for eu vs us
```suggestion
  const posthog = new PostHog(POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY, { host: '<ph_client_api_host>' })
```

  posthog.capture({
      distinctId: 'distinct_id_of_user', // Their user id or email
      event: 'user_did_something',
  })
  await posthog.shutdown() // TIP: On program exit, call shutdown to stop pending pollers and flush any remaining events
  await next()
})
```

<CalloutBox icon="IconInfo" title="Shutdown">

> Make sure to always call `posthog.shutdown()` after capturing events from the server-side. PostHog queues events into larger batches, and this call forces all batched events to be flushed immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to always call `posthog.shutdown()` after capturing events from the server-side. PostHog queues events into larger batches. This call forces all batched events to be flushed immediately.
```

</CalloutBox>

Next, apply this middleware to your app. This middleware will be called on every request handled by Hono, denoted by the wildcard `*`.

```ts file=index.ts
// use the middleware on all (*) routes.
app.use('*', posthogServerMiddleware)
```

In your routes, you can pass information to be captured by your middleware using [context `set()` and `get()` pair](https://hono.dev/docs/api/context#set-get)

<CalloutBox icon="IconInfo" title="Cloudflare Pages">

Cloudflare Pages uses its own middleware system that is different from Hono's middleware. Follow the [Hono documentation on Cloudflare Pages](https://hono.dev/docs/getting-started/cloudflare-pages#cloudflare-pages-middleware) to handle middleware. 

</CalloutBox>

## Error tracking

Hono uses [`app.onError`](https://hono.dev/docs/api/exception#handling-httpexception) for root-level error handling. You can take advantage of this for [Error tracking](/docs/error-tracking).

```ts file=index.ts
import { env } from 'hono/adapter'
import { PostHog } from 'posthog-node'

app.onError((err, c) => {
  const { POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY } = env<{ POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY:string }>(c)

>   const posthog = new PostHog(POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY, { host: 'https://us.i.posthog.com' })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const posthog = new PostHog(POSTHOG_PUBLIC_KEY, { host: '<ph_client_api_host>' })
```

  
  posthog.captureException(new Error(err.message, { cause: err }), 'user_distinct_id_with_err_rethrow', {
    path: c.req.path,
    method: c.req.method,
    url: c.req.url,
    headers: c.req.header(),
    // ... other properties
  })
  posthog.shutdown() // TIP: On program exit, call shutdown to stop pending pollers and flush any remaining events
  // other error handling logic
  return c.text('Internal Server Error', 500)
})
```

## Next steps

> For any technical questions for how to integrate specific PostHog features into Hono, have a look at our [Node](/docs/libraries/node) SDK docs for concepts such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read more about how to integrate specific PostHog features into Hono, have a look at our [Node SDK docs](/docs/libraries/node) for concepts such as:
```

> - [Capture custom events, identify users, and more.](/docs/libraries/node#capturing-events)
> - [Feature flags including variants and payloads.](/docs/libraries/node#feature-flags)

Reviewer: Identifying isn't that important in this context, identify broadly is more of a frontend concept
```suggestion
- [Capturing custom events, setting properties, and more.](/docs/libraries/node#capturing-events)
- [Setting up feature flags including variants and payloads.](/docs/libraries/node#feature-flags)
```
